What is this?

  This is a small OCaml library for computing size of OCaml values.
  It computes count of words used for values, count of values' headers,
  maximal depth of values.  There are functions to get size of values
  in bytes too.


How to use it?

  See objsize.mli for documentation.


How to compile/install it?

  Run "make <target>" in this directory.  Useful make targets are:
  - lib : build objsize library
  - tests : build tests with fresh-compiled library
  - install : install package "objsize" using findlib
  - uninstall : uninstall package "objsize"
  - clean : clean working directory
  - tests-installed : clean working directory and build test programs
      assuming you have installed package "objsize" using findlib.


How it works?

  C-function walks through values and uses header's field "color"
  to mark visited values, then restores original values' "color".
  Colors are stored using rle-like compression to decrease memory
  usage.


Bugs?

  1. Some constant values (like lists of integers) are
     constructed at compile time and placed outside of both heaps,
     and size of these values will be returned as 0.

  2. Internal function is not tail-recursive, so it uses stack
     proportionally to the depth of the value.  (for example,
     depth of list is equal to its length.)
     Some not-very-general optimization could be made to handle
     this issue for some datastructures, or library can use
     heap memory instead of stack memory to store "walk path",
     but I doubt it is worth to do.

  3. It requires gnu make.  It's possible to write Makefile for
     nmake, but I have no MSVC to test.  The best solution is
     to use ocamlbuild.  Either I will write ocamlbuild script
     later, or you will contribute it.  But it's possible
     to build without any makefiles: see original Makefile for
     details.

  4. OCaml 3.11 has new implementation of heap.  Versions of
     objsize >= 0.12 work only with OCaml 3.11 heap, versions
     of objsize <= 0.11 work only with OCaml <= 3.10.2 heap.
     Runtime failure will be raised if you link objsize >= 0.12
     with OCaml < 3.11.

  5. "Bugs" section is too long.

License?

  Dual: BSD/GPL.

Changes?

  0.1  - 2007-12-13 - Initial public release.
  0.11 - 2007-12-14 - "configure" made right. Now it works on 64-bits too.
  0.12 - 2009-04-08 - Works with OCaml 3.11, installs with findlib.
  0.13 - 2009-09-01 - Tiny change about so/dll suffix for unix/windows.

Author?

  Dmitry Grebeniuk <gdsfh1 at gmail dot com>
